Well come back in this video we are going to have a look at buttons and buttons are very important because
they allow us for example to move from one scene to another.
They allow us to choose at which level we want to be.
They are important to change settings for example or with your settings menu in general to play around.
So buttons are used very commonly So it's important to understand how they work and in order to add
a button to our you.
We need to create a button within our canvas.
All right click onto canvas then go to UI and choose button.
What that will do it will add a button and that button has a child which is our text so the button itself
has a text property or a text child which you can then change any time.
This text is similar to the text that we have seen here.
The only difference is that it has a that it currently stretches to the size of its parent.
So it's anchor settings and it's anchor preset is said to stretch to wards all directions as much space
as you have.
Which means this text will take up all the space that the button gives it.
All right button itself has properties as we know them for example the transform.
We have worked with that than does it with a height and so forth.
It has an image script which has a property or variable called source image which you can change any
time.
So if you want to change the appearance of your button you could drag an image into that source image
property.
All right so now let's get to how we can make this button act interactive with.
Because currently if we activate the game or start a game and we press on the button as you can see
it indicates that something is pressed or that we press it but nothing happens.
And in order to make something happen we need to have a script which has a functionality that we want
to call and there are multiple different options.
You could add a new empty object where you assign that script to and then you can assign to the script
to the button click event.
Or you could do the same thing with the button itself.
So we can add a component here which is a new script.
And I'm going to call that pattern behavior and what that script should do is.
For now it should increase the score by one.
So let's go into bad behavior.
So what we can do is for example we can try to access the text behavior script from our button behavior
script and then we could for example increase the text number and then set the text number in order
to change the value.
We can do that within button behavior itself as well.
We could get access to the text UI element in here and then access it from here.
Let's use this approach.
So let's create a public text and in order to use text of course we need to have unity engine UI.
So the namespace unity engine UI.
Now we can use the text class let's call it score text.
And every time that we press the button we want to increase the score text by one.
So let's get rid of the start and update method and create our own method which I'm going to call public
Voyt on button pressed.
So let's say when I press the button I want to change the score text that text too high or button was
pressed.
Right.
So let's try that.
Let's add that to that script to our button or it is already saved.
But now we need to wait a little bit until text will be shown.
So the text property here as you can see cortexes there and I'm going to use the text as a score text
which is this text here it's important that you use the text on top of button and not within button.
All right so now I need to add an on click event so you can see there is an on click list list is empty
currently.
And we can press the plus button and then we need to give it an object which contains the script that
has the method that should be triggered whenever we click on that part.
All right so click on button or choose button here because button contains the button behavior script.
If you would have the script in a different game object then you would have to choose that different
game object as the one the selected object that you select here.
OK so I select button and now I get this button behavior added to my options.
Before that it wasn't available.
And now I can choose button pressed.
So let's do that one button press was chosen.
Now let's go ahead and run the game and see if our button does what it should.
So let's press the button and we see t d o n was pressed.
So our text is changed to button was pressed.
If I press as you see as it was pressed if I press if I press the space key it says button was pressed
as well.
All right so let's press the button and as you can see it changes the text value.
So that's how simple you can use button functionality.
And yeah that's it.
So now you know how to use buttons in the next we will have a look at how we can use buttons in order
to get from one scene to another.
So see you there.